Architecture of .NET
=====================
The two major components of .NET Framework :

1. **[Common Language Runtime. (CLR)](#common-language-runtimeclr)**
2. **Class Library.**

Also .NET Framework contains belows components : 

1. **[Common Type System. (CTS)](#common-type-system-cts)**
2. **[Base Class Library. (BCL)](#base-class-librarybcl)**
3. **[Commons Language Specification. (CLS)](#common-language-specification-cls)**
4. **[Framework Class Library. (FCL)](#framework-class-library-fcl)**
5. .NET Assemblies.
6. XML Web Services
7. Window Services

## Common Language Runtime.(CLR)
This is like a virtual component of the .NET framework to executes the different languages program like C#, Visual Basic, C++ etc. A CLR also helps to convert a source code into the byte code, this byte code is known as **CIL (Common Intermediate Language)** or **MSIL (Microsoft Intermediate Language)**. Then CLR uses a **JIT (Just In Time)** compiler at run time that helps to convert a CIL or MSIL code into the machine or native code. 

## Common Type System. (CTS)
It specifies a standard that represent what type of data and value can be defined and managed in computer at runtime.A CTS ensures that programming data defined in various languages should be interact with each other to share information. For example C# define data type as int, while in Visual Basic .NET define interger as a data type.

## Base Class Library.(BCL)
The base class library has a rich collection of libraries features and functions that help to implement many programming languages in the .NET framework, such as C#, F#, Visual C++ and more. This class library divide two part : 

1. User Defined Class Library
   - **Assemblies**- It is the collection of small parts of deployment an sppliction's part. It contains eiteher the **DLL (Dynamic Link Library)** or **exe(Executable)** file.
     1. **DLL** it use for code reusability, whereas in exe it contains only output file/ or application. 
     2. **DLL** file can not be open, whereas exe file can be open.
     3. **DLL** file can't be run individually, whereas in exe, it can run individually.
     4. **DLL** file, there is no main method, whereas exe file has main method.
2. Predefined class library.
   - **Namespace** - It is the collection of class and method that present in .NET. In other word in C we used header file, in Java we used package similarly we used **using system" in .NET, where using is a keyword and system is a namespace.

## Common Language Specification. (CLS) 
It is subset of common type system (CTS). It defines a set rules and regulations which should be followed by every language that comes under the .net framework. In other words, a CLS language should be cross-language integration or interoperability. For example, in C# and VB.NET language, the c# language terminate each statment wich semicolon, whereas in VB.NET it is not end with semicolon, and when these statments execute in .NET Framework, it provides a common platform to interact and share information with each other.

## Framework Class Library. (FCL)
It contains the various type of class, interfaces and datatypes etc to create multiple functions and different types of application such as desktop, webb, mobile applicaitons, etc. Here some important components of FCL : 

1. Object Typel
2. Implementation of data structure.
3. Base Data Types.
4. Garbage Collection.
5. Security and Database connectivity.
6. Creating Common Platform for window and web-based application.


<hr />
<br />

[< .NET Framework](./../01.dotnet/01.dotnet_framework.md) | [Procedural](./../section_01.md) | [.NET Framework Compilation Process >](./../03.dotenet_framework_compilation_process/dotnet_framework_compilation_process.md)
---------------------