Hello World
===========

Here simple program on C# which is print hello world in console. 

```cs
using System;

namespace NameSpaceName{
    class ClassName{
        static void Main(){
            Console.WriteLine("Hello, World!");

        }
    }
} 

// single line comment
/*
multiline comment
*/
```


A C# Program must be contain menimun a class and inside a static method which name is **Main**. Here divide this program into 4 part for explanation. Here : 

- **[using System](#using-system)**
- **[namespace NameSpaceName](#namespace-namespacename)**
- **[The Braces](#the-braces)**
- **[class ClassName](#class-classname)**
- **[static void Main](#static-void-main)**
- **[Console.WriteLine](#consolewriteline)**
- **[Comment](#comment)**

## using System
Here this line for, use the **System** namepsace in program where contain difination of some built in class like **Console**.

## namespace NameSpaceName
**namespace** is a thing which contain **class**, **abstract class** and **interface**

## The Braces
The braces are define the area of method, function, class and namespace.

## class ClassName
Declare the class with **class** keyword. This is the huge thing. Simple a class is a thing which contain method,member variable,member function, static method etc. But initial Program Must be contain a class with any name.

## static void Main 
A C sharp program must be contain a **static Main** method in any class. Only one. This Main method declare as static. public, protected or private dose not effect. Here example of otehrs way to declare Main method : 

```cs 
public static void Main(){}
```

```cs
private static void Main()
```

```cs 
protected static void Main()
```

**void** is return type. Which mean it dose not return any kind of thing.

## Console.WriteLine
**Console** is a class and **WriteLine** is a static method whcih is define in **Console** class. **WriteLine** method print a single line of string in console.

## Comment 
Here the defination of comment in c sharp.
```cs 
// single line comment
/* multi line comment */ 
```

<hr />
<br />

[< Compilation Process](./../03.dotenet_framework_compilation_process/dotnet_framework_compilation_process.md) | [Procedural](./../section_01.md) | (./../)[ >]